---
title: "Customer Cohorts"
source: "https://newsletter.retentionx.com/p/customer-cohorts"
date: ""
author: "Alexander Jost"
tags: [retentionx, ecommerce, dtc, newsletter]
---

# Customer Cohorts

At a time when customer acquisition is becoming increasingly expensive, it's even more important to focus on retaining existing customers. By focusing on customer retention, your brand can reduce the cost of customer acquisition and increase sales through repeat purchases and upselling. In addition, customer retention can improve your understanding of customer needs. RetentionX helps your brand track and understand customer behavior patterns, make informed decisions, and identify valuable group of customers for retention and acquisition.

## What is a cohort?

A cohort analysis, typically includes a table or chart that displays data for each different group of customers (cohorts) over a specific period of time. For example, let's say a brand wants to analyze the behavior of customers who made their first purchase in 2020. They would group customers that bought in their Shopify store into cohorts based on the month they made their first purchase.

## Why is cohort analysis so important for customer retention?

Overall, early detection of discrepancies in customer behavior is important for your brand because it allows you to be proactive in addressing potential issues, rather than reactive. By identifying and addressing potential issues early on, your brand can prevent churn, reduce the number of one time buyers and improve your overall customer retention rate.

## How to work with customer cohorts in Shopify

### Step1: Define the cohorts

The first step is to define each group of customers that you want to analyze. This can be based on a variety of factors, such as purchase date, product category or demographic data. Examples for interesting customer segments to analyze would be:

- Time cohorts: Analyze how your customer behavior has changed over time
- Product cohorts: Customers who buy certain products on their first purchase
- Coupon cohorts: Customers redeeming certain coupons with their purchase
- Subscription cohorts: for subscription commerce brands
- Demographic cohorts: segmentation of customers by city, age
- Marketing cohorts: Customers acquired through specific marketing channels

### Step 2: Building a cohort analysis report

You can look at cohorts and identify your most loyal customers according to different criteria. Examples include:

- Cohorts by Average: How an average customer from a cohort behaved after a certain period
- Cohorts by Total: How much gross sales were generated by a particular customer group
- Monthly Cohort by Retention Rate: How many customers placed a second order
- Cohorts by Repeat Purchase Rate: The percentage of customers who complete a subsequent order

### Step 3: How to recognize early warning signs of churn

- Decrease in purchase frequency
- Low lifetime value
- High customer service interactions
- Decrease in purchase value
- Inactivity
